---
sidebar_position: 3
title: ⌨️ How to automate i18n and l10n?
---

## Introduction

In this tutorial, we will learn how to automate the process of internationalization (i18n) and localization (l10n) with Boyka Framework.

## Supported languages

Currently, Boyka Framework supports the following languages:

- English (EN)
- German (GR)
- Arabic (AR)

## Step 1: Update the project configuration

You need to first configure your Boyka projects configuration file to specify the languages you want to support and the folder where the language files are located.

In the `boyka-config.json` file, in your platform specific block, add the following configuration:

```json title="boyka-config.json"
{
  "ui": {
    "web": {
      "test_local_en": {
        "base_url": "https://webdriver.io/",
        "browser": "CHROME",
        "resize": "MAXIMIZED",
        // highlight-start
        "language": {
          "language": "EN"
        },
        // highlight-end
        "highlight": false,
        "headless": true
      },
    }
  }
}
```

:::info
Language setting is also supported for API and Mobile platforms.
:::

:::tip
You can check out the complete configuration details about the language configuration in the [Boyka Framework Configuration](/docs/guides/config/configuration#language-setting) documentation.
:::

## Step 2: Create language files

Create a folder named `lang` in the `src/test/resources` directory of your project. Inside this folder, create a file for each language you want to support with the abbreviation of the supported languages mentioned above.

For example, create `en.json` for English and `gr.json` for German, same as in the example below:

English language file:

```json title="src/test/resources/lang/en.json"
{
  "title": "Next-gen browser and mobile automation test framework for Node.js"
}
```

German language file:

```json title="src/test/resources/lang/gr.json"
{
  "title": "Test-Framework für Browser und mobile Automatisierung der nächsten Generation für Node.js"
}
```

## Step 3: Create POJO classes

Create a POJO class for the language file you created in the previous step. The class should have all the fields defined in the language file, and each field should have a getter method.

You can use the `@Getter` annotation from the Lombok library to generate the getter methods automatically.

Follow the example below:

```java title="src/test/java/io/github/boykaframework/data/LocaleData.java"
package io.github.boykaframework.testng.ui.lang.data;

import lombok.Getter;

@Getter
public class LocaleData {
  private String title;
}
```

## Step 4: Access the language files

To access the language files, you can use the `getLanguage` method from the `LanguageAction` class.

Check the example below:

```java
import static io.github.boykaframework.actions.data.LanguageAction.withLanguage;
. . .
final var expectedTitle = withLanguage ().getLanguage (LocaleData.class)
  .getTitle ();
```

This method takes the class type of the POJO you created in the previous step and returns an instance of that class with the values from the language file.

## Conclusion

Hope this tutorial helped you to automate the process of internationalization (i18n) and localization (l10n) with Boyka Framework. You can now easily manage your language files and access them in your tests.

If there is a language you want to add, please feel free to create a new feature request on GitHub or contribute to the project by creating a pull request. We would love to have your contribution to the Boyka Framework community.

If you have any questions or feedback, please feel free to reach out to us on our [Discord server](https://dub.sh/boyka-discord).
